these are krill tiny shrimp-like
crustaceans swarms can reach astounding
numbers 60,000 per cubic meter
during the night they rise towards the
surface to feed on plankton here in the
Sea of Cortez of Mexico the swarms
attract hunters of all kinds from
humpback whales to show us a predatory
fish
yet another hunter arrives it's one from
the deep
a Humboldt squid two meters long they
have a local reputation as man-eaters
alone they're formidable enough but this
is a pack of hundreds
they're highly intelligent hunters their
eyesight is exceptional they have
powerful tentacles suckers read with
70,000 hooks and a razor-sharp beak for
tearing through flesh
[Music]
now the fish find that they are under
attack and so group together for safety
[Music]
but the Humboldt squid work as a team
herding the fish against the rocks
[Music]
[Applause]
it's thought that the squid flash red
and white not only to confuse their prey
but also to signal to each other when
they are about to attack
[Music]
Humboldt squid numbers are growing
rapidly but they remain mysterious as
fast as they arrived they disappear back
into the deep
[Music]